feat: add option to allow user pass custom model from other providers (#68)
ashbuilds/payload-ai: guide.md

          defaultValue: 'google/gemini-2.0-flash-001',
          label: 'Model',
          options: [
            // You can find more models here: https://openrouter.ai/models
            'meta-llama/llama-3.3-70b-instruct',
            'openai/gpt-4o-mini',
            'anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet',
            'google/gemini-2.0-flash-001',
          ],
        },
      ],
      label: 'OpenRouter Settings',
    },
  }
```

2. Add the custom model to the `generationModels` array in the `payload.config.ts` file.

```javascript
export default buildConfig({
  plugins: [
    payloadAiPlugin({
      collections: {
        [Posts.slug]: true,
      },
      generationModels: (defaultGenerationModels) => [
        openrouterTextModel,
        ...defaultGenerationModels,
      ],
    }),
  ],
  // ... your existing Payload configuration
})
```

Full example can be found [here](https://github.com/nvti/payload-ai-demo-custom-model)

### **Note**

We provide a feature to generate prompt for you automatically at initialization. You can disable this feature by setting `generatePromptOnInit` to `false` in the plugin config.

If you want to use this feature, you have 2 options:

> 1. Provide a `generateText` function in your custom model. Example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. If you're using a **custom model**, make sure to provide a `generateText` function. Example:
```

```javascript
generateText: async (prompt: string, system: string) => {
  const { text } = await generateText({
    model: openrouter('google/gemini-2.0-flash-001'),
    prompt,
    system: system,
  })

  return text
}
```

> 2. Provide OPENAI_API_KEY or ANTHROPIC_API_KEY in the `.env` file. If no `generateText` function is provided, the plugin will try to use OpenAI or Anthropic to generate the prompt.

Author: Please review my guide too, @ashbuilds

Reviewer: Everything looks solid, just one single suggestion added on top. Thank you :)

      name: `openrouter-text-settings`,
      type: 'group',
      admin: {
        condition(data) {
          return data['model-id'] === `openrouter-text`
        },
      },
      fields: [
        {
          name: 'model',
          type: 'select',
          defaultValue: 'google/gemini-2.0-flash-001',
          label: 'Model',
          options: [
            // You can find more models here: https://openrouter.ai/models
            'meta-llama/llama-3.3-70b-instruct',
            'openai/gpt-4o-mini',
            'anthropic/claude-3.5-sonnet',
            'google/gemini-2.0-flash-001',
          ],
        },
      ],
      label: 'OpenRouter Settings',
    },
  }
```

2. Add the custom model to the `generationModels` array in the `payload.config.ts` file.

```javascript
export default buildConfig({
  plugins: [
    payloadAiPlugin({
      collections: {
        [Posts.slug]: true,
      },
      generationModels: (defaultGenerationModels) => [
        ...defaultGenerationModels,
        openrouterTextModel,
      ],
    }),
  ],
  // ... your existing Payload configuration
})
```

Full example can be found [here](https://github.com/nvti/payload-ai-demo-custom-model)

---

> 

Reviewer: Thanks for adding this guide, super helpful 🙏
